# 1 Introduction
Welcome to version 4.0 of Networked Decision Making System (NDMS) a system to support asynchronous group decision making instead of or combined with meetings and voting.  This version delivers a more comprehensive platform aimed at organisations looking for an open decision making, discussion and action management platform. This version aims make the software simpler to use and deploy.  This version should be used by any organisation that requires a decision making and action approval framework.  Our thinking is that this should be all organisations, albeit some may not yet be sufficiently democratically minded.
The overall background to the project is based on the global strategy book which is online and available for additional contributions at http://www.penflip.com/RussKing/global-strategy-the-bigger-picture  This goes into some detail on the reasons for the project.  In addition the high level requirements of a global decision making system have been summarised at http://www.netdecisionmaking.com/gdmsprod/about/index so they will not be repeated here.  Initial steps are likely to be made by voluntary organisations establishing and running this system or similar ones on a limited scale.
This document addresses the requirements for installation, configuration and on-going operation of NDMS.  The solution uses the excellent and award winning Web2py web framework and familiarity with this framework and python programming are advantageous.  However it should not be necessary to have any prior knowledge to get up and running on the recommended pythonanwhere platform.  Web2py can be deployed on many other platforms and can utilise a very wide range of databases.  If you want to deploy on other platforms then refer to the relevant sections of the web2py manual.  The pythonanywhere platform has been chosen because it is scalable and free for limited use.  Google App Engine was used on previous versions however there were a number of restrictions on GAE capabilities and hence it was much easier to switch to pythonanywhere.
This manual is slightly unusual in that the software consists of both a general decision making solution and some specifics that have been geared to its use as a platform for making decisions and forming a strategy to improve the world.  We appreciate that this is a rather ambitious goal and that we are somewhat under-resourced to deliver this.  However both demonstrating what may be possible and promoting the use of the software for decision making among smaller groups without a pre-established hierarchy is key.  Many clubs, societies and small companies struggle with empowerment and decision-making as hierarchy, politics, and fear of confrontation frequently interfere.  This solution aims to remove some of these issues by providing a degree of confidentiality and privacy for people to record their preferences.  We see it as inevitable that social networking software will eventually move in this direction and we are rather surprised that it hasn’t done so already.
